# Effects of the Magnitude of Earthquake on Tsunami

Earthquakes are caused by the movement of tectonic plates, which can be thought of as puzzle pieces that make up the surface of the Earth. These tectonic plates are actively moving, and often their plate boundaries (edges of the tectonic plates), will reach a fault and result in an earthquake. Faults are areas on the Earth’s surface where fractures dwell, and it is because of these faults that tectonic plates are able to move. However, these fractures also make tectonic plates stick together due to the friction that the unsmooth surfaces generate. When the motion of the tectonic plates are finally large enough to overcome the static friction, all the energy built up from the movement of the plates is expelled at once, resulting in a huge release of energy.
Tsunamis can be generated when earthquakes occur, particularly when the faults involved are reverse faults. This means that when the two tectonic plates collide, one is forced under the other, which in turn increases the altitude of the ocean floor rapidly. The instantaneous nature of this increase in altitude will force the water that was originally above it to rise rapidly, and then fall over due to gravity’s pull, resulting in a tsunami.
This project will analyze a dataset pertaining to earthquake metrics and resulting tsunamis, and will attempt to answer the question: Is there a difference between the mean magnitudes of earthquakes that do and do not result in tsunamis? Such analysis will be conducted by using mean as a location parameter and standard deviation as a scale parameter, since the data present in the dataset is not skewed.
The dataset chosen was published by the National Centers for Environmental Information, then derived from OpenDataSoft (https://public.opendatasoft.com/explore/dataset/significant- earthquake-database/information/). It displays different characteristics about each earthquake recorded, such as its location, date, time, or different metrics of magnitude. In the raw dataset, there are 42 columns, containing both categorical and quantitative values. One limitation of the dataset is that certain data points have obvious errors in them (such as the reported year being negative) that need to be filtered out to obtain reliable results in analysis.
